# MPIfR, 10 April 2014

SCRIPTS:
--------
If your project id is M-093.F-0011-2014, then you have to:

.rename your scripts and catalogs M0000_00* into M0011_93*

.edit the project id, the line catalog name, and the source
catalog name in the setup files, as well as all other occurences
of "M0000_00" in all files.

If you do not want to perform the two steps above by hand, then
you can use the shell script rename.csh to do it automatically. 
This script needs the project id as input parameter (e.g. 
M0011_93). It copies and renames all M0000_00* files in the 
current directory into M0011_93*. It also replaces all occurences 
of M0000_00 and M-000.F-0000-0000 within these files with the 
correct ids. If you use this script, make sure to remove all unused
scripts in the directory *before* running it, and upload only the
relevant scripts into the database.

For heterodyne observations, we provide two scripting options:

1. a "target" file (M0000-00-target.apecs), which is a script that 
is executed in APECS to directly perform the observation of your 
source. It requires a setup file M0000-00-xxxx-setup.apecs, with
xxxx the name of the receiver.

2. a "function" file (M0000_00-heterodyne-functions.apecs) which
defines functions. One of these functions is then executed by the 
observer in APECS to perform the observation of your source. It
requires the setup file M0000_00-heterodyne-setup.apecs.

Provide only the scripts (target or function, as well as their
associated setup) that you want the observer to use (i.e. choose 
option 1 *or* option 2).

For option 1, if you want to observe with several receivers, then 
prepare one setup file per receiver. If you have several setups 
with the same receiver, then give them different names such as, for 
instance:
M0000_00-flash-setup1.apecs and M0000_00-flash-setup2.apecs
or 
M0000_00-flash-setup_co32.apecs and M0000_00-flash-setup_c18o32.apecs

Do the same for the target files.

For option 2, you can define several myLine() functions (e.g. 
myLine1(), myLine2() etc) if you want to observe different
transitions. You have to adjust the call of these functions
in the observing functions accordingly.

Note that python requires indentation within structures like 
if statements or for loops or functions. Do not remove these 
indentations!

For heterodyne observations: the integration time you can spend 
on-source in a single dump should not exceed the time after which 
instabilities build up in the receiver (producing a.o. poor 
baselines). Typical on-source integration times are 20-30 s. This 
concerns the starring (ONOFF) mode (e.g. on(20)), the raster mode 
(e.g. time = 20.), and the otf mode. For the otf mode, this rule 
applies to the time spent per row*on2off, not to the individual 
dump time! A typical dump time is 1 s (but it can be shorter or 
longer -- max 4 s), so the typical maximum number of dumps per 
row*on2off is 20-30.

It is adviced to have scans (especially OTF) lasting no longer than
about 30 minutes. Longer scans have higher chances to get canceled
before the end (because of various issues that occur from time to 
time in the observing system), which then makes it more difficult
for the observer to recover the missing parts. 

OBSERVING DATABASE:
-------------------

Once you have finished preparing your scripts, upload them into the
database (button "uploads"). Upload the pdf file of *your proposal too*.
Finally, fill in the obs form (button EditObsForm). Make sure that the
source names and coordinates are the same as in your source catalog.
Make sure that the coordinates are correct in both places! Last but 
not least, give clear instructions to the observers on what your project 
is about and how they should perform the observations: which scripts
to use (e.g. target or functions), which sensitivity to achieve 
*at which spectral resolution* (and, for OTF, at which angular 
resolution), if the reference position is known to be clean or if the 
observers should check it etc... Do not expect the observers to 
systematically read your proposal. So put all the relevant information 
in your instructions!

After the observations have been done, you are adviced to read the
"obs comments" section in your account. It is the place where the 
observers should report on the observing sessions and the possible
issues that may affect your data. You should also check the comments 
in front of each source on the main page of your account.

HELP:
-----

If you are unsure about your scripts or your instructions, you can
contact Arnaud Belloche (belloche@mpifr-bonn.mpg.de) or, if not
available, Friedrich Wyrowski (wyrowski@mpifr-bonn.mpg.de).

If you need help to prepare your scripts for LABOCA/SABOCA, contact 
Axel Weiss (aweiss@mpifr-bonn.mpg.de).
